Rice and beans
—you can eat them with just about anything,
and they will be delicious.
What about kimchi?
It’s a dish of fermented vegetables
with a variety of seasonings,
producing a complex taste of sour and spicy.
And jollof rice?
So flavorsome!
This is cooked in an appetizing tomato
and pepper puree
laced with chili for a zesty taste.
And at the end of a day of hard work,
how about a piece of sweet,
fruity, cool watermelon?
It’s wonderfully refreshing.
All over planet Earth,
there are a vast variety of nutritious,
delicious, and refreshing foods.
That is what God has provided.
It is just as the Bible says.
Please read along with me
at Ecclesiastes chapter 3,
verses 12 and 13:
“I have concluded
that there is nothing better
“for them than to rejoice
and to do good during their life,
“also that everyone should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.”
No doubt, you enjoy your favorite foods.
Your mouth may be watering
just from thinking about it.
As much as we enjoy eating individually,
when we share a good meal
with family and friends,
it’s a special time.
In the following video,
note how Jehovah’s provision of food
gives evidence
that he wants us to enjoy life.
Our tongue can detect five basic tastes.
They are sweet, . . .
salty, . . .
sour, . . .
bitter, . . .
and a rich, savory taste called umami.
But we enjoy not just five flavors
but possibly over 100,000.
How?
As we chew, we also smell our food.
Chewing releases aromas
that pass up into our nose
through the back of our throat.
Taste and smell then combine
to make the flavors we enjoy.
Our taste buds develop before we’re born.
As an unborn baby swallows amniotic fluid,
it may taste what its mother eats
and is more likely
to enjoy the same foods she does.
We don’t just eat to survive.
We love to eat!
It makes us happy.
And the Bible says why:
“That everyone should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.”
We are made so that we must take in
physical food regularly in order to survive.
Yet, how grateful we are that our Creator
has made eating so enjoyable.
That reflects the way of Jehovah;
fulfilling our needs creates joy not dread.
You would not find a normal individual
complaining about eating a good dinner.
No, rather, it’s enjoyable.
Now turn with me, please,
to Matthew chapter 4,
and notice another vital need we have
that relates to food
—Matthew 4:4.
It says: “It is written: ‘Man must live,
“‘not on bread alone,
but on every word
that comes from Jehovah’s mouth.’”
We need physical food
to stay alive, and we enjoy doing so.
But the same is true with spiritual food;
we need it to stay alive spiritually.
Also, just as is true with physical food,
when we partake of spiritual food,
we find true joy.
Isn’t that what Jesus said
in his introduction
to the Sermon on the Mount?
“Happy are those conscious
of their spiritual need.”
The beauty of Jehovah’s way
is that he has made the satisfying
of our spiritual need enjoyable.
Why do we say that?
Because God’s Word, the Bible,
is written in a way that is appealing to us.
In his great wisdom,
he used humans to write the Bible.
Think about it.
If, for example, he had used angels,
would they have been able to convey
the emotions and feelings
with a human touch?
Words convey
not just information but emotions,
such as fear, sorrow, and disappointment.
By allowing imperfect men
to choose the wording
for the ideas they received
through holy spirit,
God conveyed his message with warmth,
variety, and the appeal
of human emotions and feelings.
That makes his Word appealing to us humans.
In addition to that, Jehovah provides
a variety of spiritual food in abundance.
But taking in spiritual food requires effort,
just as it takes in preparing
and eating a delicious meal
—rice and beans, kimchi, and jollof rice.
Each take time and effort to prepare.
It takes effort to plant,
cultivate, and pick watermelons.
But what a joy it is to experience
the results of such efforts!
What can we do to make
the study of God’s Word more enjoyable?
When reading the Bible,
do so aloud in a lively manner.
When we do that,
we experience what Psalm 1:2 says:
“His delight is in the law of Jehovah,
and he reads His law
in an undertone day and night.”
Take time to do research and to meditate.
By being creative,
you can make personal study
and family study meaningful and satisfying.
When reading the Bible, imagine the sounds,
the sights, the smells,
and the appearance of the events.
The August 15, 2011, Watchtower said:
“It is not the intention
of the Governing Body
“to establish one format for all families.
“Since circumstances vary,
“it is appropriate
for each family head or individual
“to evaluate how this weekly occasion
can be used in the best way.”
In other words,
make family and personal worship
an enjoyable time.
It may not always be
necessary or even desirable
to use a question-and-answer method.
A relaxed atmosphere is more conducive
to a lively and stimulating discussion.
It promotes creative thinking.
We marvel at Jehovah’s love and wisdom.
Not only has he given us life
and the means to sustain it
but he has also given us the ability
to find pleasure in doing so.
Because of human rulership,
many today do not receive
adequate amounts of physical food.
But the day is near when our loving Creator
will see to it that everyone alive will have
an abundance of food and drink.
In the meantime,
may all of us discern Jehovah’s love for us
and enjoy the food and drink that we do have
—and the abundance of spiritual food.
With such perfect gifts,
we look forward to enjoying life forever.
Brother Harold Corkern,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
will now present
the next talk of this symposium:
“Creation Proves That Jehovah Wants Us
to Rejoice—Beautiful Colors.”